feat(posts): add post about ApiaryUI - new version of Apiary Interactive Documentation (#131)
apiaryio/apiaryio.github.com: _posts/2018-12-24-ApiaryUI.md

---

> title: ApiaryUI - Interactive Documentation v4

Author: Removed

> title: ApiaryUI - Interactive Documentation v4

Reviewer: I'd refrain from using v4...v3 is here for so long noone remembers anything before that, imho. So I think something like ApiaryUI—rethought for speed or something like that would fit better.

Author: used `New Interactive Documentation`. Dropped v3, v4 references

> excerpt: Introduction version 4 of Apiary Interface Documentation

Author: removed

layout: post
date: 2018-12-24 12:00:00 +0200
author: char0n
published: true
comments: true
---

After months of hard work and burning the midnight oil I am very proud to announce

> the **ApiaryUI** - brand new, fully reviewed and refactored version of 

Reviewer 2: I think “fully reviewed” is a little awkward in this sentence, although I understand your intent.

Perhaps re-imagined, or rebuilt from the ground up could work better.

Author: used: `rethought`

Reviewer: Agreed. I think in the fist paragraph, we should focus on what does it bring for user, and in that sense, first thing on my mind is speed.

> the **ApiaryUI** - brand new, fully reviewed and refactored version of 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**ApiaryUI** - our brand new, fully rethought, and refactored version of 
```

I’d remove “the” in this construct.

> [Apiary Interactive Documentation v3](https://help.apiary.io/tools/interactive-documentation/) (v3).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[our existing Interactive Documentation](https://help.apiary.io/tools/interactive-documentation/) (v3).
```

This sentence previously had a double “v3”, one inside the hyperlink and one just after in (brackets).

> ApiaryUI has already been deployed to [apiary.io](https://apiary.io/) on 20th of December 2018. 

Reviewer: I'd be playful, how about something like "We already gave ApiaryUI to our betatesters as a Christmas gift 🎁 "?

Author: Used

> ApiaryUI is currently in what we call EAP (Early Access Program).

Reviewer: EAP and GA totally sounds like corporate newspeak. Can't we rephrase into something akin to "We are making it available for everyone, but before it will become THE API documentation, we want to hear from you"...>?

Reviewer: If EAP and GA is mandated by someone, I'd turn the explanations the other way around and put shortcuts into the parenthesis, not vice versa.

Although it's already GA (Generally Available), it’s not yet fully production ready.

> We want to share it with the world now and get the invaluable feedback from you - Apiary users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We want to share it with the world now and get invaluable feedback from you - Apiary users.
```

The use of “the” is unnecessary in this sentence.

> ApiaryUI is implemented in a way, that allows complete separation from [apiary.io](https://apiary.io/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ApiaryUI is implemented in a way that allows complete separation from [apiary.io](https://apiary.io/)
```

This is already a small sentence and I don’t think it fits in to have a break there.

> and possibly forming a new separate product in the future. Some features from v3 are still missing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 and possibly forming a new separate product in the future. Some features from our existing documentation product are still missing
```

I’m wondering if it makes sense to avoid the term “v3”, I am not sure that many of our customers or readers of this post will know what “v3” is exactly.

Reviewer: "Some features" spreads FUD. I'd specify which at the end of article and say whether we do plan to implement them or not.

> in ApiaryUI. Some requested features not present in v3 were implemented to ApiaryUI.

Reviewer: Same here, "those features everyone asked for" (list) :)

> We’ve managed to fix tons of v3 bugs inside the new ApiaryUI. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We’ve managed to fix tonnes of existing bugs in our new ApiaryUI. 
```

This may be a controversial suggestion (tonnes vs tons) thought 😃.

As the architecture of ApiaryUI is very simple and solid, we are able to add new features

> and fix bugs in very rapid pace. Our extensive suite of unit, integration and e2e tests

Reviewer: "in very" -> "at a very", or not @kylef ?

Reviewer 2: TBH I'd just drop `very`:

```diff
- we are able to add new features and fix bugs in very rapid pace
+ we are able to add new features and fix bugs at a rapid pace.
```

> are helping with that. This can finally release further evolution of [API Blueprint](https://apiblueprint.org/) language.

Reviewer: I wouldn't disclose the last sentence. While true, our customers are not aware and this makes us either a laughing stock and/or a very particular promise. I wouldn't promise, I'd deliver. 

Let's start the APIB feature announcement blog post with "Thanks to our new documentation, we've been able to release...".

Author: Removed

> We are currently in a process of creating the deprecation strategies for  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are currently in a process of creating deprecation strategies for  
```

The place of “the” is a little awkward when we are using plural “strategies”

Reviewer: Sounds formal to me. I'd go with something like "This version will replace our current version in the future. The exact timing and strategy is still to be determined and is waiting for your feedback".

[Apiary Interactive Documentation v3](https://help.apiary.io/tools/interactive-documentation/)
and [Embed](https://help.apiary.io/tools/embed/). When we have those strategies fully formed

> we'll them announce on [Apiary Blog](https://blog.apiary.io/).

Reviewer: I'd opt for "we'll announce them here".

### What's new in ApiaryUI

ApiaryUI went through major product decisions. The concept of having three column layout stayed,

> but we reorganized the information displayed on each of them. Human Column is now designed

Author: Used explanation from v3 help pages.

to contain all the information needed for API Viewer to fully understand what the API is all about.

> Machine Columns sole responsibility is to display machine processing related information

Author: Provided explanation and fixed the apostrophe

> about one Http Transaction - Response/Request pair.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
about one HTTP Transaction - Response/Request pair.
```

> Although ApiaryUI exclusively uses [API Elements](https://apielements.org/) as data format, it can also consume

Reviewer: as _a_ data format, I think

> Api Description Document (ADD) formats like [API Blueprint](https://apiblueprint.org/) or [OpenAPI 2.0](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/2.0.md) ([OpenAPI 3.0](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.0.md) coming soon)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
API Description Document (ADD) formats like [API Blueprint](https://apiblueprint.org/) or [OpenAPI 2.0](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/2.0.md) ([OpenAPI 3.0](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.0.md) coming soon)
```

and it parses the ADDs in Web Worker inside the browser. This means that ApiaryUI is completely

> backend-less and does not need the server as it's backend.

Reviewer: Redundant: either "does not need server" (preferred) or "is completely backend-less".

Author: Already removed in previous comments. `is completely
backend-less` used.

#### Stability and predictability

ApiaryUI is React/Redux SPA (Single Page Application). We've used industry standard architectures
and patterns to produce simple and standardized codebase. As I mentioned earlier, our extensive
tests suite guarantees the stability of the ApiaryUI and makes further development predictable. 

#### Code highlighting

ApiaryUI highlights code examples in the following languages:

- Javascript
- JSON
- XML
- Python
- Ruby
- Java

#### Print support

ApiaryUI is fully print friendly. You can easily print the rendered documentation directly on paper or into PDF.

#### Accessibility

> ApiaryUI complies with latest accessibility standards. We care about correctness of HTML semantics and proper use of Aria attributes.

Reviewer: I'd link Aria

Author: Linked

> ApiaryUI is compatible with screen readers and even specially-abled people should navigate in it with no problems.

Reviewer: TIL specially-abled, although [some people do not like it](https://adventuresbeyondbarriers.com/tag/specially-abled/).

Reviewer 3: Indeed. Even our CEO refers to these users as _disabled_  in http://www.oracle.com/us/corporate/accessibility/index.html.

BTW accessibility isn't only meant for disabled users, it also serves power users.

I would rephrase to something like:

> ApiaryUI is supports the usage of screen readers and keyboard navigation. Whether you have a disability, or a personal usage preference, it allows you to choose how to interact with the interface.

Reviewer 3: And probably I would drop `ApiaryUI complies with latest accessibility standards`. We don't comply yet with minimum contrast ratio and some other nuances of the latest standards.

Author: Used disabled, dropped some sentences and rephrase the thing.

Full support for touch events is guaranteed.

##### Keyboard navigation

ApiaryUI supports keyboard navigation for people who cannot use a mouse or other pointing device, 
or who want to use a keyboard as much as possible.

> #### Mobile First (building for the future)

Author: I've stolen the `Mobile First` from https://foundation.zurb.com/mobile-first.html. Not sure how it should be correctly.

> #### Mobile First (building for the future)

Author: Used `Mobile first`

Mobile devices are already eclipsing desktops in adoption and internet use — that's why ApiaryUI was built from
the ground up to support any kind of device, any size screen, with any resolution. 
ApiaryUI behaves and looks differently on mobile and desktop resolutions to maximize the user experience. 

#### Error Boundaries

ApiaryUI has full support for error containment and reporting. When the ApiaryUI intercept an unexpected failure
it will contain it and display the Error Boundary view. This view contains button for downloading
the complete Error Report. 

> 

Reviewer: I think this deserves further explanation on why you should care. As in "this means that if there is any problem, you are still in control of your data, but you may decide to share it with us—and we'll have your complete state, which will allow us to fix bugs much faster".

Author: Changed. Thanks

### Next steps

#### Speed

> We're currently parsing your Api Description Documentation on every browser view. This makes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We're currently parsing your API Description Documentation on every browser view. This makes
```

> displaying of your API Projects via ApiaryUI unnecessarily slower. We plan to cache the result

Reviewer: Confident delivery style. "We plan to" -> "We'll"

Author: Changed

of the parsing and skip the parsing phase of ApiaryUI. This should rapidly increase the
rendering times.  

#### Deprecation strategies

As I mentioned earlier, we are in the process of forming deprecation strategies for 
[Apiary Interactive Documentation v3](https://help.apiary.io/tools/interactive-documentation/) 

> and [Embed](https://help.apiary.io/tools/embed/). 

Author: Deleted from the begging and moved to appropriate section

#### Development of missing features

We'll be continuously delivering missing features from [Apiary Interactive Documentation v3](https://help.apiary.io/tools/interactive-documentation/) into ApiaryUI.
To learn more about the missing features, please refer to [ApiaryUI help page](https://help.apiary.io/tools/interactive-documentation-v4/).

> I would like to wish all Apiary users Mary Christmas and Happy new Year. We are thrilled to 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I would like to wish all Apiary users Merry Christmas and Happy new Year. We are thrilled to 
```

Reviewer 4: The Christmas are over. In the Czech Republic we use Christmas to denote the whole week, but elsewhere they usually mean just the specific days when the festivities happen. I'd strip the Christmas from the wish and focus on the new year 😄

welcome all Apiary users to try the new ApiaryUI - Interactive Documentation v4. 

> Follow this [help page](https://help.apiary.io/tools/interactive-documentation-v4/) to get information how to enable ApiaryUI on your existing API Projects.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Follow [this tutorial in Apiary Help](https://help.apiary.io/tools/interactive-documentation-v4/) to learn about how you can start using ApiaryUI on your Apiary projects today.
```

> The help page also contains some additional information about features from Interactive Documentation v3

Reviewer 4: This is repeating what has been already written a few lines above.

that are currently missing in ApiaryUI.

### Attributions

> I would like to give special thanks to Patrick Silva, Radek Podrazsky and Standa Opichal.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
 I would like to give special thanks to Patrick Silva, Radek Podrazky and Standa Opichal.
```

Reviewer 4: @ajkl2533 Your suggestion adds an extraneous space in the beginning of the sentence. Otherwise it seems legit 😄

Reviewer: If people are OK with it, I'd make the names link, to put some human face to it. To not make it a personal promo, I'd to Github / Twitter / Linkedin, in that order of preference.

> These guys formed a core of new Documentation Team, did an exceptional job and make the delivery of ApiaryUI possible.

Reviewer 4: I'd avoid the word guys in this context: why not 'They formed' ?

> Thank you guys and keep up the good work!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Thank you and keep up the good work!
```

Reviewer 4: 'guys' seems redundant again. For some it may sound more like 'dudes', I'd better skip that word or choose different wording.

> Thank you guys and keep up the good work!

Reviewer: While I like and fully support the attribution of the team, ending the article with it makes this a bit self-serving and worth an internal announcement and/or "how v4 was baked" blog post (which I would totally love to read and if you are up for it, I think it's totally worth writing!), but not a product announcement. 

I think the article should end with CTA for trying the documentation out and with thank you to the users since they are the audience of the article.

I also think both thank yous are possible within the same article, but it requires some thought and reshuffling of the content.

To learn more about the missing features, please refer to [ApiaryUI help page](https://help.apiary.io/tools/interactive-documentation-v4/).

I would like to wish all Apiary users Merry Christmas and Happy new Year. We are thrilled to 
welcome all Apiary users to try the new ApiaryUI - Interactive Documentation v4. 

> Follow this [help page](https://help.apiary.io/tools/interactive-documentation-v4/) to get information how to enable ApiaryUI on your existing API Projects.

Reviewer 6: Maybe just Happy New Year?
